Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to show you how to edit and also add items into the list.
So I hope you had the opportunity to take a look at the source code and now let me show you how you
can add items into a list.
So first of all let's create an event listener so to document and this time we're going to do get element
by ID.
And we need to grab that add new and for this we're adding an event listener and event listener that
we're adding is click and whenever it gets clicked we want to fire off the function where we're going
to add an item.
So let's Or maybe let's just do this as a separate function.
So I'd add.
And so that's a function.
And we're going to also select false there.
So this was from the previous lesson we were looking at the bubbling
and let me let me clean up the code a bit.
So there you go.
So that's a little bit more readable.
So now we're firing off.
So whenever anything gets entered in here we want to be able to pick that up.
So we've got a brand new function that we need to set up in order to handle this event.
So this is where we're actually going to add an item.
So we know that for arrays if we want to add something in then we push it and we need to just have a
value there to push in.
And also the next thing that we need to do is we need to know that we need to rebuild our HVM L after
we've pushed the value.
So now we need to grab a value so we can just do it as a variable A and grab document and get element
by id and we need to grab that element of the input so that one was add friend
and friend and we'll grab the value out of that.
So contained within a.
And we're simply going to push it into a.
So go ahead try it out.
And now hopefully if we hit test then we add in that functionality.
We can also delete out items and add in items.
So everything is working.
And because we're just simply rebuilding it we don't have to worry about adding elements and so on.
We're just simply rebuilding out what we had created earlier with the build function.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to grab that elements so we grabbed earlier data action.
Delete now this time let's grab the data action at it.
So this is going to be very similar.
So what I can do is I can just simply copy this out and make a few updates.
So instead of data action delete let's grab data action at it and we're going to loop through.
So instead of data action delete will set up a brand new variable for that.
So we've got the length we need to add an event listener.
So we're going to listen for it when it gets clicked.
We also are going to prevent the default.
We need to get that index value as well.
So grabbing that value.
So that is relatively the same functionality.
And then within here.
So this is actually where it's going to all differ.
So let's update update what's different here.
And I'm also going to do one more update.
So instead of variable I we're just going to do this we're going to grab the data roll because we want
to make use of it within a few other items as well and then we're going to do that for the ID.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and what I want to happen when we hit it I want this whole
roll to go yellow.
So pause the video and add that in.
So looking back at what we did earlier we're changing the background color of an element.
This is what I want you to apply.
So the style background color change it to yellow.
So pause the video and add that line of code in and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So we do have that object under roll and let's add in style and background color is the one that we
want it to update.
And let's set it to yellow.
So basically once it gets clicked then we're going to set it to yellow.
And I'm actually also going to get rid of those built here because we don't need that one.
And I'm going back in.
So our ID and this one is going to be roll with the get attribute rule.
So this is actually where ID is going to set.
So let's go back and let's try the soat.
So now when we hit it everything goes yellow.
We are throwing an error there so let's go take a look and we'll see what the error is.
So our is not defined.
So we're trying to probably use our down here within the console and we haven't defined it so that's
fine so we just simply remove that.
Now when we hit EDOT at it it's going yellow.
So the idea is once we finish the edit I want to change this back to white.
So we need to include that as well.
So there's a number of things that we need to do here.
So what I want to do is I actually want to transform that text we need to have an input area here.
So when we click to edit we want to change this to an input area so we can actually update and input
that value so we can make some changes to it.
So for this we actually need to create a separate input.
So let's do that where we're going to create document and we're going to create an element so creates
element and the element that we're going to be creating is going to be an input.
And now we need to set some parameters so input type and let's have a text input and input value.
So we need to set a value for the input input value is going to be whatever the contents of this particular
element are.
So we need to actually move down to that element and pick up that information.
And so basically we know that we've got the role and we've got first element child.
So if we do first element child then that's going to pick up.
So we've got our role and our first element child is that the cell there that TV cell and so we can
grab that and let's grab the inner text of it.
So there we go.
So we've created that input and let's just make sure that our input is actually holding right right
value.
So let's go back out and refresh and hit edit and we can see we've got our input here.
We've got text and we need to loop be able to loop through there in order to get the value.
So let's try that again.
So input and let's go all the way down to value just to see if we're actually dropping that value in.
So we do have a value of Larry within this input.
So let's go back a little bit and create a variable called Tiddy.
So this is going to be my first cell and I know if I go down row and I go to my first element then this
way I can grab all of that information because I need it to be able to do this because I want to insert
that input where that particular text is sitting right now.
So let's clear out what's already existing now that we've passed that value let's do inner HVM L and
we're going to clear that out.
And next what I wanted to do is let's append this brand new input in its place so we know that we've
already got
the t d so we can go to D and append.
So when I append child and the child that we want to insert is input.
So let's see how this works.
So go back and refresh the page.
And now when we hit edit we see that we can actually access that and we can edit that information.
So the next step that we need to take is that we need to add on blur action.
So basically whenever we finish and we click off of it then we need to take some type of event and also
the other thing too that I want to do is I want to do input focus because while we still have actual
ability to grab this particular element we can attach the focus to it.
So what focus does is when I click it we automatically jump into the input cell so we can actually get
rid of this console here and the next one that we need to add is input and on alert.
So just do.
We're not going out at an event handler we're just added in as an attribute event here.
So and we've got a number of actions that we want to do.
So basically whenever the user finishes editing we want to update the index value.
So for my array and let's update that array item with the brand new input value so whatever the input
value is at that time and we know what our array item is by our ID.
So it's odd that in there.
So let's go back and refresh it and hit edit and let's make some edits click off of that and let's list
the my array
and we'll see that we actually were able to make that at it.
So that worked out properly.
So then next in that we also need to do is we want to change the background color style back to white.
So this again we have all of that information that we need currently.
So we can simply grab the one that we did to yellow and we can update it and change it back to white.
And also we need to remove out that input.
So just as we appended the input let's remove that one out.
So this one is remove child.
So just as we did append child input we can do remove child input.
And then lastly there's one other thing that we need to do and we need to set the TV in or h t M-L to
the value of the input value.
So let's save this and let's try it out.
So basically edit and let's add in test and when we click off of it.
So now we've got the right value in there.
Again when we go in to it and we click off of it.
So now the RE as well as the cell has the new updated values attached to it.
And we can do this for any one of our cells.
Now so a few things that I still want to do and this is more CSSA.
So let's do SS and first and we can also use the same CSSA in order to make our selection.
So it's always good to be familiar with CSSA.
So first child is I want to make it wider.
So basically when I refresh it that's going to give me this one and it's going to make them wider so
that I have better access and that doesn't look so weird when I edit and I click off of it and so on
that the cell change cell sizes change.
So there we go.
So we can update some of the CSA as well.
So now we've made an updateable dynamic table we can add new entries and whenever we add them in that
we can edit them we can click on them edit anyone we can delete ones that we don't want and so on.
So a fully flexible dynamic editable table using just javascript
and this type of thing really shows the power that's available within the dom because you have just
so many options and so much flexibility that really it's pretty much limitless that you can take advantage
of what's available within the DOM traverse through the DOM selecting elements updating elements creating
new elements updating styles and just basically manipulating everything that's within the visible area
for the user within your web page.
So go ahead and try it out for yourself and see what else you can do with this type of script.
And remember all of these contents are sitting within an array.
So if you're looking to submit it to a database all you need to do is simply submit that array to the
database because all of this is just done on the front end as well.
So you could add that functionality in and you can go ahead and add that in.
So the next thing that you need to do is simply update.
So when you're updating the build create a hidden field within a form and then have a submit button.
So basically whenever that value updates update the hidden field with the value that's contained within
the array.
And that's going to give you the ability to pass through the brain you array values to your server.
And so go ahead and add that into the application and also make some updates as needed to really customize
and get a good feel for what's available within the.